# Setting up Capacitor and the two native projects (iOS and Android)

This readme file is included in order to document how Capacitor was setted up for this project, including the iOS and Android projects, wich correspond to the `android` and `ios` folders in the root of the project.

Capacitor cli (command line interface) is used to create the native projects and to copy the web project to the native projects.

Ran

```bash
npx cap init
```
Asks questions and creates `capacitor.config.ts` file accordingly.

Ran
```bash
npx cap add ios
```
Which caused Capacitor to create the ios native project, folder `ios`, and adds it to the root of the project.

Ran
```bash
npx cap add android
```
Which caused Capacitor to create the android native project, folder `android`, and adds it to the root of the project.

At first sight makes sense to think that the native projects folders (`android` and `ios`) should be gitignored because they could be rebuilt with capacitor cli, but not totally, as they contain extra files and settings that are not part of the web project, and that are not generated by capacitor cli.
Therefore they should be part of the git repository and each of them contains its own `.gitignore` file.


More Capacitor commands reference:

```bash
npx cap sync android
npx cap sync ios
```
Copies the web project to the native projects. In the normal flow, the webapp should be built beforehand.

```bash
npx cap open android
```
Opens the Android project in Android Studio (on Linux/Windows/MacOS).

```bash
npx cap open ios
```
Opens the iOS project in XCode (only on MacOS).


## iOS

With Xcode, removed ipad and mac from list of supported destinations (targets app -> general -> supported destinations).

Same section, under deployment info unchecked all except Portrait.

Edited name of app in ios/App/App/Info.plist
```xml
	<string>UFD</string>
```

### fixing notch and home bar overlap [wip]

Trying to fix overlap of content with notch and home bar
by 
```
  ios: {
    contentInset: 'always',
  },
```
on `capacitor.config.ts`

and adding `, viewport-fit=cover` to `index.html` meta tag `viewport`

sources:

https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor/issues/1947

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66586424/capacitor-ios-app-doesnt-scale-to-full-height

another approach for the solution is with CSS and 
eg 

constant(safe-area-inset-top)

env(safe-area-inset-top))